Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu is the first female deputy governor of Lagos State. She was a victim of the aborted Third Republic following the coup led by General Sani Abacha, which ended the democratic government on November 17, 1993. In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, she speaks on her experience, political journey, life after office and the 2019 general elections, among other national issues  It is 25 years after the Third Republic was aborted through a coup led by General Sani Abacha, who sacked the Head of the Interim National Government, Chief Ernest Shonekan and all elected public office holders from office on November 17, 1993. How do feel about that incident? Life has never been the same since that disruption of a civilian democratic process. In actual fact, there are people who never regained their life back. Sincerely, those of us who are at the top of our careers, when we were called upon to serve, there was actually nothing you could go back to. I had colleagues who left with nothing. I was lucky that I had a husband who was a banker, so I went back to being a mother and wife and I started picking my life together. But the level at which one has reached; Nigerians with their sense of respect for position and office, it was not easy to get absorbed into the corporate world again, expect you are running your own business. Many people went into a lot of things after the aborted Third Republic to survive. Some waited for politics to come back and they went back to politics. So, things have never been the same again and it is not something I will ever wish to ever happen again. You were elected to serve a four-year tenure, but the military cut short your plans and aspiration for the people… It was painful, especially when it was not necessary. That disruption of the Third Republic was very unnecessary because we went through an election and somebody was elected and the person should have been allowed to assume office. States and local governments were running smoothly before the military took over. The two levels of government; local and state were in place, only the presidency was about to be concluded when the whole thing was aborted. At first, we thought that the abortion was just for the presidency until the announcement came that all of us were set packing. How did you receive the news of your sack from office? We were going about our normal duties, when the announcement was made. My governor, Chief Michael Otedola, was out of the country. So, I was more or less in charge. We didn’t take it that it affected the states because I put a call through to my governor that a coup has taken place and he told me that it has to do only with the presidency. But, I told him that with my experience with previous coups, I don’t give anything to chance that I am going to pack my things. And if it doesn’t affect the state, I would come back. That was on a Friday, two days after, it was clear that the military has taken over and Shonekan sent packing. In fact the day that Abacha took over I was at an event with Shonekan. He was holding a meeting with all the governors in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. I was representing my governor, when the announcement was made. On that day, the governors have to even scramble to get flights to return to their different base. When I got to Lagos on Thursday, I called my governor on Friday that I am packing my things and if it doesn’t affect the state, I will be back on Monday. I had the experience of how soldiers operate because I was a victim when Muhammadu Buhari took over in 1983.
I was on the receiving end of the booth of a gun because I was performing my duty. At that time I was in charge of Certificate of Occupancy under the Lateef Jakande administration and I went back to the office on a Saturday, only to be confronted with gun toting soldiers and when I said I was coming to work, they didn’t take it kindly. They said I came to pack files and to hide something. And when I tried to explained, the next thing is that from nowhere I got the booth of the gun on the side of my face, near my ear and I fell down flat and fainted. That time, Gbolahan Mudashiru had already being made the military administrator. He heard about it but there was nothing anybody could do? If I had died that day, I would have gone like that. So, having had that experience in 1983, I was not ready to face any other gun toting person while in office. All I did was to pack my things that Friday and left the office. Interestingly, my aides put on the flag of my car as if they knew that was bye. So, jokingly I asked them, why are you flying the flag? They said just in case, only for us to get home to hear the announcement that weekend that they have already taken over and by Monday, the commissioner and all the political office holders met gun toting soldiers when they went to office to take their things. So, I was saved from that and many thought I was informed or I was close to the soldiers. I wasn’t close to the soldiers, but previous experience made me to realise that when this people mean business, you better don’t be around because all they hear is go; they don’t want any excuses. Did your supporters desert you on leaving office? Despite leaving office as deputy governor, the influx of people to our residence did not stop after the coup; instead the flow increased having been known as a cheerful person before I ventured into politics. Some people believed that I made a lot of money while serving as deputy governor, but in my case, my husband supported me financially because my governor denied me many of the comforts of office. At a stage, my husband had to be turning them back, but I am still into mentoring and dispute settling. Occasionally, I give monetary gifts whenever I have some to spare or even deprive myself of luxurious items to help the genuinely needy and these days they are on the increase.  As an active participant in the aborted Third Republic, what can you say about Nigeria’s politics between then and now? Is there any improvement? Nigerians are Nigerians, whether in uniform or out of uniform. The problem has been in existence for long time and our previous leaders saw it. When Baba Obafemi Awolowo was called upon to suggest ways of how to go about  changing Nigeria, Baba said there is a kind of evil in the hearts of Nigerians that need exorcism. That is just to capture how I feel about things from the time we were thrown out of office till now. The Abdulsalami Abubakar-led regime has its own shortcomings; then the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) 16 years of waste. Now, with the All Progressives Congress (APC); the same underlying current is there. The more you look, the less you see and things are not improving. Revenue is coming in, but in terms of what it is being used to do, the more you look, the less you see. That is very painful.
Within the three years of Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, I can see some things being done, but you wonder about some of the revelations coming out that trillions of naira were diverted with nobody saying anything about that. You can imagine if part of this money has been used to revive our dilapidating infrastructure, the education and health sectors. The other time, there was controversy over the budget for Aso Rock Clinic; how much was allocated and how much was released and the President’s wife, Aisha, said there was no aspirin there. What has been done to the people who should account for that? So, the country’s resources are just being shared at the level where people thought that they are untouchable. But there is nobody that is untouchable. They will be touchable one day, especially when the people reach the wall. I am worried, it will not be soldiers taking over any more; it would be the revolt of the people, especially when Nigeria has become the poverty capital of the world. Talking about what had happened in the past 25 years, there has been no improvement and I wish that the Third Republic was not aborted. I wish MKO Abiola was allowed to come onboard and use his managerial experience to try and do something. I wish all the state governors and local government chairmen then, who were men of integrity and who knew what they were doing, were allowed to remain in government because since then, we have not really gotten it right. So, you believe Nigeria would have been better if the Third Republic had not been aborted? Nigeria would have been better now if the military had not taken over because it seems people after that event, started perfecting act of stealing and looting. Look at all the revelations we are getting, how people became billionaires over night from our common wealth. What is our common wealth? Oil is our common wealth. The revenue from the ports is our common wealth. All the agencies that should remit money to Nigeria’s coffers are our common wealth. I once proposed something. How I wish this administration has the will to set up a Truth Commission that will identify projects that could be funded with monies in the hands of some people and name it after them in order to create jobs. In terms of health facilities, some of the things we are going to do abroad, we have Nigerians who have the brain to come and work here. Foreigners are ready to work here, so such funds can be used to upgrade our facilities. We know where our monies are and we know the people to ask questions. Why has it being difficult to ask those people questions and bring them to book? I thought Buhari was going to do it because I knew from all indications that he doesn’t have anything stock up, but he cannot do it alone. He needs to work with people, but unfortunately, the hands of most of these people are not clean. What we should commend the Buhari administration for is that there is nothing hidden any more. Before, you cannot say somebody has stolen, but now, you can say somebody has stolen, especially when you look at when that person was in office. So much was released, but little was done, so where did the rest go to? Now, we can speak openly about looting of the treasury. Before Buhari, you can’t. People will tell you ‘mind your business even when you get there, you also will do the same.’ Now people are saying the suffering is too much; that it has reached an alarming rate. It is no longer secret; people are aware of what is happening in the country. For you to now raise your head up in public and say you made it; you have to explain how you made it. You are a civil servant, a public officer, how did you make it? If you didn’t loot, how did you make it?
Some of us who were in the private sector before going to public service, we can say that during our days in the private sector, we had so much or partners like my husband, who were in the private sector and we made money of our own. But, these days, we see people who after 16 to 18 years as public officers became billionaires. What is the source of their billions? I am not going to mention names, but it is sad that such people are coming back into our politics to say they want to make things right. What do they want to make right? Where is the moral justification? I prefer Buhari to many of the known former public officers who are now stupendously wealthy; whose source of wealth cannot be ascertained. I prefer Buhari to a million of them coming up. For several years, we have been having recycled people in government. Can Nigeria make progress with that? I think when people are getting illicit money, they become lazy and the thinking cap is not there any longer. You know hardship comes with a lot of challenges. Since Buhari came up with the Bank Verification Number (BVN) and Treasury Single Account (TSA), illicit money has stopped flowing. People are now thinking of how to make ends meet. I think that the flow of oil money that people did not work for impaired the brains of most Nigerians. Again, the nature of our politics scared away some people who ordinarily should be in positions of authority. The system started assassination of politicians. We can’t forget how Funsho Williams was killed in Lagos? Many lives have been lost across the nation. So, a lot of people became afraid that those who are in the system are ready to shed blood to remain in the system. Another thing is that people are resorting to cultism and they are bringing it into the system. They are calling on powers they cannot control. We remember how Europeans were burning witches and wizards, and look at their system today. They must have reasons for not wanting the supernatural in their system because it is something you cannot explain. But it looks as if we are going more and more into it now. You are wondering how somebody is able to get an upper hand in a situation you know he is not qualified for. Are people sleeping? This has been going on for some time. I remember there was an election we had in Lagos State and people were talking about Ibo oloyi (massive voting); when people went to vote for one candidate, they ended up voting for the opposition and everybody was wondering what happened. How did that person happen to win? None of us wanted him, but nobody could explain what happened.
So many people are not ready risk their lives because of politics. After Funsho Williams was killed, I was a gubernatorial aspirant of PDP, ny mother was still alive and she called me to quit politics. She said ‘I know you will not steal and you will not allow others to steal, so what are you going to do there? Don’t let them kill you; I want you to bury me.’ And that was how I stepped aside from politics. So, your mother stopped you from politics? Yes! She stopped me from politics. She said ‘you are such that will not steal and you will not allow others to steal. But since you won’t allow others to steal, what are you going there to do?’ And that is what we are in now. Some people will not steal, but others are stealing under their watch, which is not good for the polity. That is why I am so happy that there is the whistle blowing policy though the whistle has reduced because people who should protect the whistle blowers seem to be exposing them to danger. No whistle blower would want to be exposed to danger, especially when the people you are blowing the whistle on have many hungry touts that will take life just like that for some money in their pockets. I am just praying that the 2019 general elections if it takes place; we will be able to get it right because it has not started well. The kind of impunity witnessed during the primaries has not given us any good sign that it is going to be okay. How can I at my age be thinking of how to relocate from Nigeria? At as this time, deep within me, I am thinking of how to relocate because everybody I come across that I want to use for one work or the other, has been so engrossed in corruption. Something that should not be more than N5, they will tell you it is N20. The cheating and lying at every level of contact; artisans, professionals, is a cankerworm. Even the people who should do the exorcism that Baba Awolowo advocated are the ones who are corrupting the system. How can the leader of a church be preaching prosperity when he is supposed to preach to public officers to be diligent, honest and hardworking? At a thanksgiving service, he is preaching prosperity and quick methods to riches. So, who will do the exorcism? What drives your passion for a better Nigeria? Considering the age that one is, I cannot work anymore; I am already retired and I don’t have money stocked anywhere, so I want this nation to get it right because this is home and this is the time of rest. So, Nigeria must get it right because there are so many of us, who do not have any other home to go except Nigeria. And then the young ones too cannot be thrown into the Diaspora. Nobody loves Nigerians out there. Our youths are so self-confident; if you are to be a second class citizen anywhere, you have to have the spirit of humility. Nigerians don’t have spirit of humility.
So, I pray that the people who are going to come on board in the next four years will really get it right. Whatever that is going on now that they are trying to do; that we think they are trying to get it right, I pray they can consolidate on it and put us on the right path. But I don’t pray we go back to the period when people did not care whether people have or don’t have. With the opulent allowances of public office holders, we are really courting trouble over this non approval of N30,000 as minimum wage. How can we say we cannot pay such minimum wage to civil servants? Right now, all attention should be paid to how to make the economy to work, so that people will get jobs and for our facilities to work, otherwise, we have a revolt on our hands.