The servant of God, Primate Elijah Ayodele of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Oke Afa, Isolo, Lagos, has predicted that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will find it difficult to wrestle power from President Muhammadu Buhari come February 2019 because they refused to do the right thing from the beginning.
Primate Ayodele made this proclamation during his end of year interactive session with journalists at his church premises while also rolling out his prophecies for 2019.
According to Ayodele: “I said it the other time and I still maintain it, if PDP had given the ticket to Bukola Saraki, they will win because it’s only Saraki that can unseat Buhari but PDP have not done what they are supposed to do. I said it in 2015 that Jonathan maybe the last president from PDP. I’m still standing on it unless they take a quick step and that is for Atiku and Saraki to do the right thing. If only they will do the right thing, that is only when PDP can win. For now, I’m only seeing Atiku and Saraki playing.”
When probed further on what is the right thing they need to do, the Primate said: “That’s all I’m saying on this matter. PDP will find it difficult to wrestle power from President Buhari come February 2019 election because they refused to do the right thing from the beginning. Unless they put heads together and do the right thing, APC will still come back.”
The servant of God then went ahead to give prophecies on which parties will take the ticket in some of the states in the forthcoming election.
In his words: “For Lagos State, it won’t be business as usual but APC will still win. In Oyo State, it’s going to be tough. The PDP man there has missed it; it’s still going back to APC. Ogun State is a troubled state. The election should’ve favoured APC, but APC may not have it in Ogun State. Don’t underestimate Amosun’s candidate, or the candidate from GNI but PDP will never get the ticket in Ogun.
“For Delta State, PDP will take the state. For Rivers, though it’s a do or die affair; Wike will still come back. Kano and Kaduna is for APC. Then for Imo State, if the PDP man is serious, he can take the state but unfortunately, I don’t see him to be serious and if APC puts their house in order in that state, then they can win that state. APC may win Anambra State for the presidency. Ebony and Cross River States may go to APC if PDP is not careful in those states. This is because PDP has not done what they are supposed to do.”
He stated that though he cannot say that his prophecies are 100 per cent because prayers can change things but he can boast that 95 percent of his prophecies have come to pass. He warned that there will be more bloodletting and tension in the forthcoming election than we saw in 2015 when Goodluck Jonathan was president. “Buhari is not Jonathan who went for peace instead of war,” he said. The servant of God also warned against traces of Ebola and polio recurring in the country in 2019. He also announced other prophecies in the education, maritime, electricity sports and oil sectors.