While other nations are taking steps to reduce their waste through recycling, indiscriminate dumping of plastic waste is raising concerns of environmental pollution in Nigeria. Reports Dayo Ayeyemi  The use of plastics has brought much ease to daily urban lives and living without knowing much about the untold health consequences. If people are aware of the danger of plastic to humans and the environment, both residents and government would have done something urgent about its usage by encouraging proper plastic wastes’ disposal and recycling methods. However, indiscriminate dumping of plastic wastes on roadside, major highways and drains is raising fear of environmental pollution among Nigerians. A simple walk on cities’ centres such as Abuja, Aba, Ibadan, Jos, Lagos among others and beaches across Nigeria coastline reveals the presence of plastic waste spectacle everywhere. Also, recent flood menace in about 12 states of the federation further confirmed that Nigeria is sitting on a keg of plastic pollution. Cities’ dumpsites are not spared of plastic wastes, which are non bio-degradable and end up in open drains and water bodies. Some of these wastes range from pet bottles to electronic, pure water sachets and polythene bags. According to the United Nations Environment Programme, overall natural capital cost of plastic use in the consumer goods sector each year is $75 billion, adding “plastic waste causes financial damage of $13 billion to marine.” Worried over indiscriminate dumping of plastic wastes in Nigeria, a group of volunteers, who converged on Oniru Private Beach in Lagos for cleaning exercise, carted away 85 bags of trash weighing 900 kilograms, that would have gone into the ocean on a spot. New Telegraph’s survey showed that most of the plastic wastes were transported from urban drainage channels and water bodies to the Atlantic Ocean. In all the waste bad spots and flood-prone locations in Agege, Obanlende, Adeniji, Lekki, Surulere, Egbeda, Abule-Egba. Dolphin Estate, Ojota, Palm Grove, Dopemu, Orile, Mile 12 and Ketu Lagos, plastic materials blocked most of the drains. Some of the waste were also dumped indiscriminately by passers- by and fun seekers. The group was led by Oyeronke Adegbile’s Marine and Coastal Conservation Society of Nigeria in partnership with Ocean Conservancy, USA. Adegbile stated that marine litters especially plastics were harmful to the ocean, beaches and wildlife such as sea turtles, seabirds and mammals. She said: “Marine plastic debris has been documented as harming nearly 700 species of wildlife. Every year, an estimated eight million metric ton of plastic waste flows into the ocean. It’s bad news for the health of this vital natural resource, the iconic ocean wildlife we all love as well as our own health, safety and prosperity.” Without concerted global action, she pointed out that there could be one ton of plastic for every three tons of fin fish by 2025, leading to significant environmental, economic and health issues. She noted that at least 80 percent of ocean plastic originated from land-based sources, pointing out that keeping the ocean free from trash is one of the easiest ways to improve the health of the ocean. Adegbile, who is also a principal research officer at the Nigerian Institute for Oceanography and Marine Research, explained that Project Butterfly was meant to stem the tide against marine litter and plastics in oceans. Worried by this development and its dangerous effects during the 2018 World Environment Day’s (WED), all stakeholders comprising government, civil society organisations (CSOs) and relevant agencies in the environment sector were urged to start aggressive campaigns against plastic pollution in Nigeria. They also called for policies in support of recycling of plastic waste. Proper recycling of plastics, they said would go a long way in reducing the level of environmental effect caused by blockage of drainages by non-degradable plastics such as water bottles, pet bottles from soft drinks and other beverages. Plastic recycling includes melting down plastic water/soft drink bottles and then casting them as plastic chairs and tables. Plastics are also recycled during the manufacturing process of plastic goods such as polyethylene film and bags. A percentage of the recycled pellets are then re-introduced into the main production operation. According to experts at www. plasticpollutioncoalition.zendesk. com, disposed plastic materials could remain in the environment for up to 2,000 years and longer. For this reason, they pointed out that plastic affected human health, noting that toxic chemicals that leached out of plastic have been found in the blood and tissue of nearly all humans. “Exposure to them is linked to cancers, birth defects, impaired immunity, endocrine disruption and other ailments,” they said. Besides, the experts stated that plastic would spoil the groundwater as toxic chemicals from plastics drained out and seep into groundwater, flowing downstream into lakes and rivers. “There are long-term risks of contamination of soils and groundwater by some additives and breakdown by-products in plastics, which can become persistent organic pollutants,” they noted. Besides, they explained that plastic always attracts other pollutants that affect fish and widelife They said: “Over 260 species, including invertebrates, turtles, fish, seabirds and mammals, have been reported to ingest or become entangled in plastic debris, resulting in impaired movement and feeding, reduced reproductive output, lacerations, ulcers and death. Speaking with New Telegraph in an exclusive interview, the Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI), Mr. Adebola Shabi, pointed out that plastic waste was poisonous to environment and public water . According to him, it will take between 300 and 500 years for plastic to degrade in the environment. He noted that Lagos, with huge human population, consumed a lot of plastics, which ended up in canals, drains, dumpsites and lagoon, disrupting water transportation, clogging movement of water leading to flooding of the environment; affecting living organism negatively and clogging boats. He added that Electronic – waste (E-waste) such as computer components, after their lifespan would be picked by scavengers with the mind of recycling them, but unfortunately end up in facilities producing children food. “We find some of the polythene papers in cow. So plastic waste is dangerous to human and animals,” he said. Lagos Commissioner for the Environment, Mr. Babatunde Durosinmi- Etti, said that in order to safeguard the city against major environmental pollution, the state government had unveiled plans to establish plastic waste collection centres in all the 57 local government areas of the state. He added that incentives have been put in place to encourage youths to bring plastic to the centres and get something in return. He urged Lagosians to find alternatives and aggressively seek ways to eradicate the menace caused by the products and therefore make the environment more livable for all and for future generation. He appealed to Lagosians to support household and community recycling with the reuse of plastic related materials to reduce the effect of plastic pollution in the environment. Shabi hinted that government is planning to ban plastic in the metropolis, adding that the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA) is undergoing research to come up with alternating material. National Coordinator, Global Environmental Facility (GEF ), Mrs Ibironke Olubamise, said that existing plans to tackle plastic pollution would be successful if aggressive awareness creation campaigns were executed. According to her, the fact remained that the use of plastics has brought much ease to daily lives and living but ignorantly with much untold health consequences. She said that GEF-SGP, which was being implemented by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Nigeria, focused its attention on the campaign, while supporting pollutionrelated projects with over $150,000 to support efforts to address pollution, including plastic pollution. Director, Health of Mother Earth Foundation (HOMEF), Nnimmo Bassey, described plastic pollution menace as a ‘haunting reminder of the harm that mankind was having on the environment. He stated that reports by Ocean Conservancy suggested that there would be more plastics than fish in the oceans by 2050. “Already, plastics have been found in over 60 percent of all seabirds and in all sea turtles species that mistake plastic for food,” urging the need to beat plastics, “for our survival and for the survival of other species. We need fish, not plastics.” Programme Manager, Fight Against Desert Encroachment (FADE) Africa, Bunmi Obanawu, canvassed good price on plastic materials to discourage Nigerians from using them. “When we are made to pay for plastics, we learn to make less use of them,” Obanawu said. Co-founder of Wecyclers, a recycling company, Wale Adebiyi, talked about the dangers of plastic pollution, the need to imbibe the culture of recycling and how his company used incentive-based strategy to encourage people to recycle. In his view, Mr David Michael, the Executive Director, Global Initiative for Food Security and Ecosystem Preservation, a non-governmental organisation, called for a total ban on single-use plastics if they could not be re-used or recycled. “We are advocating for a total ban of single use of plastics in Nigeria because plastics do not decay; they remain in the soil, river and ocean for years,’’ he said. Michael urged producers of plastic packages to use biodegradable materials such as paper bags and leaf to package consumable products. Managing Director of APM Terminals Apapa, Martin Jacob, also made a case for the proper disposal and recycling of plastics in order to reduce harmful effect on the ocean, wildlife and humans. Disclosing this during a cleanup, organised by APM Terminals Apapa in partnership with Wecyclers at the Ogogoro Island, a riverine community in Apapa, Lagos as part of the company’s 2018 “Go Green” campaign, Jacob said no fewer than 120 employees of the company, Wecyclers volunteers and residents of the community took part in the cleaning exercise; collecting trash and other litters from the shoreline of the island. Jacob who said a total 228 kilograms of waste was collected at the end of the exercise. The Senior Programme Officer, Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Initiative, Mr Richard Inyamkume, said that the government and citizens should evolve practical strategies that would reduce the menace of plastic waste in communities. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, has requested foreign consumer goods giants operating in the country to maintain their global recycling policy in the country to eliminate indiscriminate disposal of plastics. Osinbajo said the world must check plastic pollution to secure the environment He disclosed that the Federal Government was also collaborating with the state governments to establish plastic waste recycling plants, under the communitybased waste management programme in the ministry. Minister of State for Environment, Alhaji Ibrahim Jibril, said the Federal Government has been working on a national policy on plastic waste management to regulate use and disposal of plastic waste in the country. The minister said that the Federal Ministry of Environment, in collaboration with critical stakeholders, had developed a national strategy for the phase-out of plastics, which are non-bio gradable. According to him, two plants have been completed in Ilorin, Kwara State, one in Lokoja, Kogi State, while work on another is ongoing in Karu Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. “In addition, two privately run programmes are Bola Jari (means waste to wealth) in Gombe State and Leda Jari (means converting nylon bags to wealth) in Kano State. These initiatives are encouraged and supported by government,” he said. The minister solicited the support of the media to educate Nigerians on the effects of plastic pollution and the need to reduce, reuse and recycle plasti Shoprite Holdings, South Africa’s biggest supermarket chain, said it would pay customers for reusing its newly introduced recyclable bag as it joined domestic rivals in efforts to curb plastic pollution. Supermarkets have come under increased pressure to cut their use of plastic as images of littered oceans and beaches become commonplace, shocking both consumers and shareholders. South Africa does not have a law banning plastic bags. However, to reduce littering and discourage customers from buying them, South Africa increased the plastic bag levy in April by 50 percent to 12 cents per bag. Shoprite said every time a customer reuses its new 100 percent recycled and recyclable plastic bag, which retails for 3 rand ($0.2088), at Shoprite and Checkers stores, they would get 50 cents off their grocery purchase. “Changing consumer behaviour by rewarding customers for re-using bags is a critical part of the retailer’s efforts to reduce plastic waste,” it said in a statement. The U.N. Environment Programme estimated that some eight million tonnes of plastic are dumped into the ocean every year – the equivalent of dumping a garbage truck full of plastic every minute – killing birds and marine life and compromising the ocean ecosystem. It wants to eliminate single-use plastic by 2022 and disclosed that more than 60 countries, including China, France, Rwanda and Italy, have taken steps to ban or reduce plastic consumption. According to a new study co-designed by Kim, Seung-Kyu, Professor at Incheon National University and Greenpeace East Asia, Over 90 per cent of sampled salt brands globally were found to contain microplastics, with the highest number coming from salt sourced in Asia. The study, which has been published in Environmental Science & Technology, a peer-reviewed scientific journal, analyzed 39 various salt brands globally, showing that plastic contamination in sea salt was highest, followed by lake salt, then rock salt – an indicator of the levels of plastic pollution in the areas where the salt was sourced. Only three of the salt brands studied did not contain any microplastic particles in the replicated samples.