The presidential candidate of the Alliance of Social Democrats (ASD), Deacon John Dara has been active in Nigeria’s politics since 1989 and he is the brain behind many successful political campaigns since then. In this interview with ONWUKA NZESHI, the presidential candidate speaks on his aspiration and vision for the country if elected in the 2019 general elections   You have been around the political arena for some years. How did it start?  I have been at the back stage of politics running some of the most outstanding and successful electioneering campaigns in Nigeria. I started with Local government chairmen in Lagos State. They were six and four of them won their elections. That was when Lagos State had only eight local government areas; so you can imagine raising 50 per cent of council chairmen in the state at that time. Their councillors rode on their backs to win and it was a defining moment in Lagos politics because the political establishment was shocked that somebody they did not reckon with was able to upstage them. If they thought it was a fluke, I repeated the magic, when I managed Sir Michael Otedola’s campaign. He ran on the platform of the National Republican Convention (NRC), a party that was virtually non-existent in Lagos.  The Social Democratic Party (SDP) was Lagos party, but we were able to win. I served briefly as his adviser before I moved on to run Dr. Ahmed Kusamotu’s campaign as national chairman of the party and he won. I also managed Chief Olusegun Obasanjo’s presidential campaign in the 1999 elections and he won. I am someone, who likes to get my work done and move on quietly with my life. I joined the Middle Belt Forum at a time when the forum was almost irrelevant, but I became a leading figure in re-engineering the forum. Today, you cannot talk about politics in Nigeria without the Middle Belt. I am therefore, a someone who is focused on what I want to do and I get it done.   You are also said to be someone with a rich knowledge of issues many like to call the national question… I have been a delegate to two national conferences, but even before then I was a resource person in two other national conferences. So in a sense, I have attended four national conferences. Now, the remarkable thing about these conferences is that this is where you meet the representatives of every interest group in Nigeria. This is where you get to know their fears, yearnings and aspirations. This is where you get to know the peculiar character of people from different parts of the country. This is where you highlight the problems of Nigeria and proffer solutions. So, in a sense, I have become like an encyclopedia of what the problems of Nigeria are and the recommended solutions. The problem is that all the recommended solutions have never been implemented.  Why are you running for the presidency in 2019? My mission in running for the office of the presidency is to actually implement those recommendations. They are the paths to our greatness that we have ignored and neglected over the years. I want to take the nation back to the path that would take us to greatness and fulfill our destiny. I speak all the time about a nation fulfilling its potentiality and some of my friends have nicknamed me a Reclaimer and Actualiser. I want Nigeria to return to the path of greatness by fulfilling her potentiality.  Do you think that your party, Alliance of Social Democrats (ASD) has the structure and network that will take you to Aso Rock? Yes and no! The first thing is that the choice of the Alliance of Social Democrats is deliberate. I have helped to revive the Social Democratic Party (SDP), but I realised that the leadership of SDP was compromised and they were working more as an appendage of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and I felt that I was not going to be a candidate whose ticket would be negotiated away. On the day of the convention, I knew the result before the convention started, so I did not put down one naira for anybody. I did not need to waste my resources. But it helped us to be able to activate another platform. Fortunately, we found from the midst of all the political parties another party that was also a social democratic platform called Alliance of Social Democrats. As we interrogated them, we found out that they were even more focused, more ideological and more determined, but relatively smaller. So, I felt it can be done through this platform because in the final analysis, it is not the structure per se that wins election; it is the people of the country making up their mind on what they want. Our goal is to be able to persuade the people of Nigeria that the two big options, PDP and APC, are terrible options. They are journeys into the past. They will only continue to take us on the path that has brought us into the crisis point that we are in today. There is not going to be any change. The two of them are part of the old order and we needed a new platform and we needed to be able to sell it to the electorate.  Do you think there is still time for a new party to make an impact on the political scene before the elections? We believe that there is still enough time to persuade the people of Nigeria that it will be suicidal to vote for APC or PDP at the next elections. It would mean that we love the pain they are inflicting on us. It will take some measure of masochism for the people of Nigeria to vote for APC or PDP again. If you vote for APC, you are voting for crisis, conflicts, perennial inter-tribal and inter-religious conflicts because the party does not have a vision of how to integrate the people of Nigeria and how to run an all inclusive government. As for the PDP, it is like going back to your vomit. These people have shown that they cannot be entrusted with our resources; they have not shown seriousness to nation building.  What are you bringing to the table as the alternative? As a matter of fact, my manifesto is called the Revolutionary Option because we believe that nothing short of a revolutionary mindset will get us elected and get Nigeria to move in the direction it ought to go. It is not about the Next Level, it is the level where we belong to in the world. We are supposed to be in the top league, but if you just move one step and you say you have moved to the next level, you’re still nowhere.  Some Nigerians say they are not certain where the Next Level campaign of the APC is leading to. Do you also think the same way? Absolutely! They are correct because when they came with the Change mantra, we didn’t know whether the change was for good or for bad, positive or negative. Now, they have come with the Next Level. They always trade in ambiguities.  What’s your view about the campaign for restructuring currently being championed by the PDP? During the 2014 National Conference, I was a champion of restructuring and with my colleagues, we worked very hard to recommend the structures and the forms of government as well as the changes in the constitution that are needed to actualise restructuring. We actually came up with a Draft Constitution, but it was my friends from the far North, who made us change it to Proposed Amendments to the 1999 Constitution and because we were trying to build consensus, we accepted to change the title, but the content was the same. All the deficiencies in the 1999 Constitution were corrected at the 2014 National Conference. So, I will hit the ground running because I already have the blue print (Report of the 2014 National Conference) which is already in the hands of the public.  How do you want to achieve the revolution you have in your manifesto?  We just need a three-pronged approach to it. The first leg of the revolution is the reforms. Even restructuring is part of the reforms. As I told you, before you talk about restructuring, you need a revolutionary mindset and a re-orientation of values, so that the people can embrace the ideals of democracy, hardwork and productivity. We all need to roll up our sleeves and work together as one big family to transform Nigeria Into a huge piece of real estate that the whole of Africa and the black race can be proud of. The idea of dependence on China and other countries for technology to do anything is self defeating. Nigerians are very brilliant and very hard working. When Russia built her railway from Moscow to Siberia and they were building even during the deadliest of Russian winter, it took determination and hard work to succeed. They didn’t know it all, they didn’t have everything or every solution on the table, but as they get to a point, where they have an obstacle, they found solution. I believe that we don’t need any foreign help to build inter-state highways. I do not need foreign help to build even railway in Nigeria. Nigerians, both within and outside, have the knowhow and the capacity to do it and we will do it. We just need a leadership that can motivate, mobilise and get our people working together. Look at all the resources we are wasting fighting ourselves.  What are the specific reforms you want in the system? We need reforms in education. We also need reforms in the health sector. We need reforms in our public service because it is not productive. The problem is not the size of the public service, the problem is that it is not a productive service. Do you know that if our public service becomes productive, it will bring in income to the nation? Every agency of government is a potential revenue earner and that is part of what we want we want to do. Secondly we cannot continue with this motion without movement that is called governance in Nigeria. We need serious development in three critical areas – human capital, infrastructure and economy. If you bring out the best in our people, you will discover that they have the capacity to do a lot of things. Human capital development is not rocket science. It means every citizen must be given opportunity to be educated; every citizen must be given opportunity for self improvement. Health is wealth. You must keep your people healthy. They must be free of disease by giving them potable water to start with. Do you know how many people will be healthy by having access to clean water? Do you know how many preventable diseases we would avoid if we have potable water? We can then move into primary healthcare and expand it in such a member that it becomes a destination for medical tourism. Today, Nigerians are even going to Ghana for medical tourism. It’s a disaster. The third element, which is an aspect of human capital development, is welfare. You know that poverty is debilitating and our people keep talking about poverty alleviation. It is part of the reason why we opted for social democracy. Let me tell you that social democracy believes in capitalism, free enterprise, but we also believe that government has a responsibility to intervene on behalf of the weak and the vulnerable. And that is why welfare is a critical part of our programme. Welfare is not handouts; it is creating safety nets in such a manner that the system does not overlook anybody.  What specific difference would you make in the security sector? Believe me; all these talks about reforms and development will not work if we don’t have security. But security is not about carrying guns and attacking perceived enemies of the government safeguarding lives and property of the people. You must equip your people in such a way that they are willing to live in peace. They have something to live for and they have something to protect. This means that our programme for human capital development is related to the issue of security.
Most of the people who are carrying arms against the state today have little or no education. They can afford to die. What are they living for? They never had a house of their own; they have no roof over their heads. Many of them never had wives. So, when they are in the forest and have guns, that was the first time a weak one is feeling powerful. They had food because they were raiding communities, taking over their land and indulging in cattle rustling. Suddenly, they didn’t need to worry about not having wives because women who would normally not look in their direction are now captured and made their sex slaves. On the other hand is the military class. Many of them are also making money from the confusion. So, we have to find a way to stop this thing. You must remember that the insurgencies we are witnessing in different parts of Nigeria were caused by the excesses of the state. Boko Haram uprising was as a result of provocation by the state. There was no justification for the killing of their leader. You therefore must embark on constructive engagement with the key elements of Boko Haram if you want this matter resolved. The military class must also be willing to divert their energies into things that are more productive. There are better ways of retiring rich and happy.  The high rate of insecurity has been linked to the nation’s porous borders. What do you have as solution to this challenge? There are two key elements which I want to highlight on this matter. They are the issue of professionalisation and equipping of the security agencies whether it is the Police, Military, Immigration or Customs. All of them need to be trained and made more professional and equipped adequately. People might want to ask: Where are we going to get the money? You don’t put the cat before the horse. As long as we become productive, reduce wastage and curtail leakages in the system, funding will become less problematic. We do believe that in many areas, we can partner with the private sector to get things done faster. The other critical element in managing our security is border control and Integrated National Data Bank. During the last National Conference, I served in the Committee on Citizenship, Immigration and National Identity and part of my recommendations was that every section of our borders must be secured. You know that we have over 1,500 entry points and less than 16 per cent of them are properly manned and secured. The consequence is that people can come in and go out at will. It’s a miracle that we don’t have more problems than we have right now. We are not going to build walls like President Donald Trump wants to do across the U.S. border with Mexico because the technology for policing borders with drones and electronic system is available. We have Nigerians who have the knowhow; we have Nigerians who are some of the leading experts in robotics, artificial intelligence and making of drones. So, we hope to deploy a lot of these technologies in order to police our borders. Once you have a system where if there is any incursion or illegal movement at the borders it can be detected quickly and addressed speedily with helicopters moving to the location, warnings being given and people being stopped, then we will be getting to the root of the problem. But you know that the West African protocol on free movement of people actually imply that West African citizens should be able to come into Nigeria and go out of Nigeria at will. What is required is documentation. There must be records kept about movements across our borders. I don’t have problems about even cows moving into Nigeria, but I just want to make sure that every cow within Nigeria must be tagged with micro-chips, so that we can track them and know where they are at every point in time. We don’t mind who is leading them provided that the person has an identity card that shows his nationality. It could be that you are not a Nigerian but you are in Nigeria with your cattle and you are just passing through our territory. You’re free to do that but every citizen of Nigeria and every immigrant within our borders must carry appropriate identification. The same thing must apply to the cattle. This is not new; we were doing that before. The Sardauna was collecting tax on every cattle in Northern Nigeria. So, I don’t mind if you bring all the cattle in West Africa to Nigeria as long as you pay tax on them  Your manifesto sounds good but are you not intimidated by the two dominant political parties? Well, you know that some of us have worked with at least one of the big parties in the past and we know their strengths and weaknesses. The real power for getting people elected is with the people of Nigeria. The elites see the APC and PDP as vehicles for controlling the masses, but it is now up to the masses to free themselves from their control. I think that for 2019, the people of Nigeria should vote for the candidate and not for the party even though by law, you must be on the platform of a party. That requirement has been fulfilled by me and everybody else in the race, but I am reaching out to interest groups to let them know that they don’t have to vote for any of these big two parties. The idea of a Third Force was propounded by people like former President Olusegun Obasanjo and others, but they gave up too soon. People like me don’t give up because it is the only way for Nigeria to really move forward. If we elect any one of these two in 2019 election, we’re just going to waste another four years. I have no doubt about that in my mind. It could be worse because once they consolidate in the next four years, you may find it even more difficult to dislodge them. If PDP wins, you may not be talking about four years, you may be talking about eight years and if they stay right years, trust PDP, they know what to do to hang on there. So, I think the people of Nigeria should know that we’re in a desperate situation. It has nothing to do with me as an individual, it is about Nigeria and they have options. We think it is strategically smart to look for an alternative from Northern Nigeria, but we must reject these two. I look forward to a situation where zoning will become irrelevant, but from a strategic point of view, it is still valid for now.
This is why nobody who is really a politician from the South-East, South-South South and South-West is in the presidential race. They all assume it is the turn of the North and as a northerner, I am offering myself as an alternative to the big two.  Are you confident about the preparedness of the electoral commission for the 2019 polls? I believe we can have a free and fair election because the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has what it takes to conduct free and fair elections. It’s about individual officials, especially those holding strategic positions to be determined that the resources at their disposal will be used not to favour anybody or any interest, but to conduct a free and fair elections. If all INEC personnel concentrate on conducting free and fair elections, we will have it.  Are you comfortable with the emerging scenarios of vote-buying and the use of security to intimidate voters as witnessed in recent elections? Ironically, none of that can be blamed on INEC. Without holding brief for the commission, I can say that INEC is not responsible for vote-buying and it is not responsible for intimidation of voters by security operatives. However, the prospect of these happening in a general election is much less than in isolated state elections. The total security personnel is not so much and even if you deploy all them on election day, it cannot constitute the kind of intimidation we had in Osun and Ekiti elections. The general elections is going to be substantially different. You cannot say that the outcome of the election of 2015 was as a result of security intimidation neither will you say that it is a result of vote-buying. There will be excessive spending of money by the two big parties, but the people are waiting for them. They should collect their money but they should vote them out. The good thing about PDP bouncing back is that I believe there will be a balance of terror between the two bad guys. We will just let them wear themselves out while the people would just give us somebody, who will give us peace. As I said, my manifesto is called the Revolutionary Option. Look, if we do not approach this with a revolutionary mindset, we will lose it. It cannot be business as usual. We have lost too much ground and we have distortions in our system that you need a radical leadership that will do things differently. The new leadership must be able to deny itself of the usual spoils of office before they can ask Nigerians to deny themselves of anything. 