The Lagos State Police Command has arrested two of its officers, attached to Lion Building Police Division, Lagos Island, for assaulting a young lawyer in a video, posted by OAK TV online, which went viral. The video showed officers in black Tee- shirts, with police written on it, assaulting a young lawyer. The lawyer, Olakunle Kareem, was allegedly demanding for his salary from his former boss, before the man invited the policemen. The policemen, rather than take him out in an orderly manner, started raining slaps on him. According to report, the incident happened in the law firm of Oluyomi Olawore on June 29, in Lagos. Our correspondent gathered that Kareem had tendered his resignation letter to Olawore in May after working there for almost a year. It was further alleged that his boss begged him to work till June, when he would pay him off. The boss further said that the time would also help him to get someone that would take over from Kareem. It was also gathered that Kareem obliged his boss, but midway through June, his boss allegedly told him to stop work, that his services were no longer needed. The young lawyer was said to have asked for his pay based on what he had done so far. Olawore gave Kareem a postdated cheque, which would become payable at the end of June. On the due date, Kareem went to the bank, but the bank refused to pay him, insisting that the cheque was not properly signed. Kareem returned to his former boss with the cheque and explained the situation. Olawore, however, allegedly refused to append the proper signature to the cheque, claiming that he had no business with Kareem anymore. Kareem said that the cheque was useless to him without the proper signature and refused to leave Olawore’s office. The boss then asked some of his staff to go to Lion Building Police Station to get police officers, claiming that Kareem was holding him hostage in his office. The police officers came and the video was the resultant event. According to the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Chike Oti, the police officers seen in the video assaulting the young lawyer had caught the attention of the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi, and Imohimi immediately constituted a panel to look into the allegation. Oti said: “The findings into the case revealed that the officers in the video are not operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) as alleged, but conventional policemen, who were invited to the chambers of Olawore & Co of No 28/30 McCarthy Street, Lagos Island by the managing partner, Barrister Olawore.” Oti further explained: “The said Barrister Olawore sent a distress call to the police through one of his junior partners, requesting that he be rescued from another junior partner by name Barrister Kareem whom he alleged was about to use an unlawful force on him, having disconnected the Firms’ CCTV cameras and locked up all doors leading into the firm, and by so doing, held Barrister Olawore hostage inside his office. It was based on the complaint that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Lion Building dispatched policemen to the troubled chamber to bring the feuding lawyers over for interrogation. However, the CP observed with dismay that the policemen sent to the scene were not at their professional best. The CP has therefore ordered that the policemen, who had been arrested, be tried on oath. They risk stiff punishments for their actions. The CP also directed that DPO in charge of Lion Building be queried for lack of supervision.” Oti added that the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State Criminal Intelligence and Investigations Department (SCIID), Panti Yaba, has been directed to take over investigation of the case and look into the matter concerning the two lawyers with the view to diligently prosecute both or anyone of them found wanting. The CP advised employers/ employees to learn how to settle internal squabbles amicably without resorting to self-help. 