Vice President Yemi Osinbajo led other dignitaries to advocate for strong and autonomous states in a federal system at the special parliamentary session held to commemorate the third anniversary of the 8th Lagos State House of Assembly. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  It was meant to be a colourful third anniversary laced with pomp, but the tragic event of the previous day necessitated a low-key third anniversary of the 8th legislative session of the Lagos State House of Assembly. Lagos, had on June 29, experienced a black Thursday at the Otedola Bridge, Lagos end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, after a petrol-laden tanker crashed and exploded. With 12 people losing their lives and no fewer than 54 vehicles gutted by fire, the spectacle that the anniversary deserves was rightly mellow down. Although the mood in and around the chamber of the Assembly was sober, the achievements and legislative mileage attained by the 8th Assembly under the speakership of Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, is clearly loud on the streets of the Centre of Excellence. Upon its inauguration in June 2015 the state governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, members of the 8th Assembly unanimously elected the present Speaker of the House, Hon. Obasa, as the 8th speaker of the 40-member assembly comprising members of both the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Since his inauguration, Obasa, a fourth term legislator representing Agege 1 state constituency, has been sailing the affairs of the assembly alongside his deputy, Hon. Wasiu Eshinlokun-Sanni; Majority Leader, Sanai Agunbiade, Ikorodu 1; Deputy Majority leader, Muyiwa Jimoh; Chief Whip, Rotimi Abiru, and Deputy Whip, Omotayo Aramide Oduntan. Interestingly, the current assembly, which lingua franca is English and Yoruba languages, has a member, Hon. Emeka Idimogu from Imo State, South-East. The Assembly uses Yoruba language to conduct its legislative business on Thursdays. With his vast experience in the business of legislation, Obasa, a lawyer, has so far conducted the affairs of the house satisfactorily both within and outside the plenary. With his high sense of legislative management, the 8th Assembly under him has been able to keep to its vision of being “the leading light and pathfinder for Nigerian legislatures. Little wonder, Governor Ambode, at the anniversary, showered encomium on the leadership and members of the Assembly for its dynamism and commitment to the development of the state. According to him, the three arms of government in the state have always worked together and have strived to show a good example of tenents of democracy and what growth and development should be “and with that collaboration we will take Lagos to where it is supposed to be”. In his welcome address, Speaker Obasa said in three years the Assembly has passed 28 bills into law and over 100 resolutions on education, health, power, transport, security, and environment for the well-being of Parisians. Commending Ambode for a good job he is doing which is visible all over the state “he has turned the whole state to one construction site.” While stressing on the important role of the Assembly in democracy, Obasa said the executive should ensure the survival of the legislature by playing the role of a father and ensuring cordial relationship to avoid instability and anarchy. He said, “Since last year, when we met like this, we have successfully passed a total of 13 bills into laws while we have also made 45 resolutions. Some of these laws address issues related to our environment, power and energy sector, health, transport, as well as education. Notable among them is the Lagos State Electric Sector Reform Law 2017, which aims to ensure the protection of consumer interest and compliance with environmental laws. The law is to further strengthen electricity generation, distribution and transmission for improved power supply in Lagos State. “Also, because of the public outrage on some parts of the Land Use Charge Law 2018 that were perceived obnoxious, your Assembly, in line with its commitment towards inclusive governance, engaged in extensive dialogue with various stakeholders to ensure its proper review.” Delivering a lecture at the special session, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, advocated for a strong and autonomous state as a panacea for eradicating poverty in the country. According to Osinbajo, the present government is working round the clock to create an environment for business to grow especially a micro-credit scheme for those at the lower rung of the economic ladder to lift them out of poverty. While the theme for the lecture was ‘Strengthening legislative institutions: panacea for eradicating democracy’, the Vice President however narrowed the topic down to ‘Stronger state and the eradication of poverty. Osinbajo noted that poverty can be eradicated by having strong states with the strong judiciary, executive and legislature who would channel the resources of the state to create wealth for the citizens and eradicate poverty. “The three arms of government in the states must work proactively for the economic development of its citizens. To achieve this there must be devolution of powers to the states to enable them to control their resources”, Osinbajo said. Citing the great feat achieved by the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo who as Premier of the then Western region recorded achievements that were acknowledged worldwide, he said most of his ideas have remained enduring relying solely on revenue from taxes and cocoa. He stated that although he supports devolution and restructuring but that even without restructuring it is possible to create a strong state without any major constitutional changes. According to him, the Lagos Assembly has pushed the frontiers of federalism by passing laws which has strengthened federalism in Nigeria. The vice president also explained how collaboration between the three arms of government in Lagos right from the reign of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to the present governor the state has been able to win series of cases at the Supreme Court which has given more powers to not just only Lagos state but which has benefited so many other states as well. Making a case for state police to tackle present security challenges confronting the nation, the VP said local policing is very important as part of security architecture. He said, “In guaranteeing security, the role of government; the state government, the role of State judiciary are crucial. The Federal Government has the overarching role of ensuring that the Police works, the Army is doing their job, and other security agencies are doing their work. “But we have argued repeatedly, and we believe it is the position of our party, that you cannot police a country of this size, with a police command that functions out of Abuja. It is just impossible, we must have a state police, community police. “The reason why it is so obvious is that policing is always a local function. Anyone who is a policeman must be able to speak and understand the local language. If a policeman doesn’t understand the local language, he stands at a major disadvantage. This is why state or local policing is important as part of our security architecture.” He noted further that “some of what we have seen in many parts of the country, where we have had herdsmen killings and clashes with farmers, and the slow responses of the security agencies, has been on account of the fact that local policing is weak. “If you look at the Logo local government area in Benue state, it is on the border and far away, the number of policemen stationed there, and several other local governments, are far too small to contain the sort of challenges that they have there. We must have Special Forces and Joint Task Forces, in order to maintain peace. But how is that possible in several local governments across the country? “The only solution we can proffer, therefore, is some form of local policing so that the state can decide, how many policemen, how many security agencies are required. That is the way by which we can have enduring solutions. In his lecture at the session, former speaker of the House of Representatives, Alhaji Ghali Umar Na’aba asked the Federal government to empower the middle-class people, adding that government must ensure that people are given a good education. Notable among dignitaries at the event include: Osun State Governor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola; Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr. Idiat Adebule; former Lagos Deputy Governor, Mr. Femi Pedro; House of Representatives Majority Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila; APC National Legal Adviser, Hon. Babatunde Ogala; APC South West Women Leader, Mrs. Kemi Nelson; Rights Activist, Femi Falana; Secretary to the state government, Tunji Bello and other exco members, Body of Permanent Secretary, traditional rulers, executive of the Lagos APC, among others.