Nigeria’s manufacturing sector’s performance in the first half of the year was mixed, as the Federal Government’s budget delay, the country’s rejection of African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) and others dominated the period. Taiwo Hassan reports  CBN forex intervention Surprisely, many manufacturers would have been taken aback that foreign exchange scarcity and non-availability of raw materials that had confronted them have been resolved amicably by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) through its constant intervention in the forex window. In the past, many of them complained bitterly over the difficulty in accessing foreign exchange to procure raw materials for production. No doubt, the non-availability of forex had impeded some firms’ productivity. In fact, some of them had to either close shops or reduce their capacities drastically in a bid to remain in business. Reacting to this, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) said: “It is important to note that our members are suffering not just from the scarcity of foreign exchange and raw materials, but also, the hash business environment in the country – multiple taxation and poor infrastructure. The situation is really quite pathetic for businesses, especially those in the manufacturing sector.” However, the intervention of the apex bank brought succour to them.  Budget delay One of the troubling events that trailed the country’s manufacturing in the first half of the year was delayed passage of the 2018 appropriation bill. Indeed, the organised private sector (OPS) frowned at the rift between the executive and the legislature, which caused delay in the budget passage.  While reacting to delay in budget passage, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) disclosed that the delay caused uncertainty in the economy, as strategic planning of many organisations were derailed. President of the LCCI, Babatunde Ruwase, said it was absurd that close to half of the year, the country’s budget was not passed for implementation, adding that this was certainly not the best way to run the affairs of a country. He said that the delay had shown that both the executive and legislature were not in cordial relationship, adding that uncertainty and associated business risks in the economy were being heightened. Also, MAN, in its reaction on the budget delay, said that the non-passage of the 2018 budget by the National Assembly was already causing severe headwinds to the country’s manufacturing sector and the economy in general. Besides, MAN disclosed that the budget delay was brewing large inventory of unsold goods in warehouses.  Its President, Dr. Frank Udemba Jacobs, emphatically revealed that the country’s manufacturing sector was on the verge of being dragged into another economic turmoil, following the non-passage of the budget.  Insecurity Also, another event that shaped the industry in the period under review was security challenges in the country, especially as it affected private sector business operations. Particularly, the impact of security risk on Nigeria’s business environment in recent times cannot be overemphasised. The LCCI believes that no meaningful business can take place in an environment that is not secure.  The private sector group noted that security of life and property was a very clear factor in the investment environment and a major consideration in investment decisions. “In recent years, the country has been grappling with serious challenges bordering on terrorism, religious and ethnic crisis, attacks on oil installations, kidnapping, armed robbery and attacks by herdsmen. The impact of these security challenges on business and investor confidence is phenomenal. “Not much investment activities are taking place in the North eastern part of the country, for instance. The same is true, perhaps to a lesser degree, in some other parts of the country. Nigeria’s position in the Transparency International security ranking has plunged to 143 out of 169 countries,” Ruwase said. Indeed, the LCCI revealed that there was now a sharp increase of 10 per cent in insurance premium on security-related risks over the last one year on private sector firms’ investment. Ruwase explained that private firms were spending billions of naira on security to protect their investment and that this had gulped their operating cost in recent times. He said there was increase in the cost of providing additional security by some key sectors in the economy, including oil and gas and banking.  Lagos Land Use Charge One of the turbulent challenges that faced the private sector was the new land use charge introduced by the Lagos State Government. At a summit organised by LCCI in conjunction with Lagos State Government on the controversial, the atmosphere was turbo charged as private operators including real estate consultants, surveyors and estate agents stormed the venue to engage representatives of the state government. Particularly, one main objective was how the new law would not worsen the already tensed economy and put investments at further risk. The reason for the private sector concern was that the new law would hike rents in houses meant for commercial purposes.  Mining With the hostilities surrounding the country’s mining space, the need to revamp the sector by doing away with obsolete laws and replacing them with functional reforms and regulations also dominated the period under review. Consequently, the Federal Government revealed that it approved the plan to establish a Nigerian Mining Commission that is expected to take charge of the regulatory’s role of the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development in the country. According to the Federal Government, this is to ensure predictability in the mining sector and boost local and international investments. The immediate past Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, said that the law setting up the commission was already with the National Assembly and if passed into law, would see Nigerian mining sector getting an economic regulator to run the affairs of the ministry.  FG NERGP launch Another event that trailed the period under review was Federal Government’s launch of the first phase of the Nigerian Economic Recovery Programme (NERGP) Focus Labs expected to generate over $22.5 billion investment across the country The Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, while speaking at the unveiling of NERGP in Abuja, said that the government was prospecting over 513,981 jobs nationwide by 2020. He described the NERGP as an integral economic strategy the administration under President Muhammadu Buhari was propagating to unlock business opportunities in a bid to resuscitate the moribund economy. Udoma said about $10.9 billion worth of private sector investments were categorised under the group and these opportunities would spread across the country’s six geo-political zones.  The minister said the jobs would be generated from the execution of about 164 different project streams in the six core sectors considered during the various lab sessions as most viable in the economy. About $4.73 billion worth of investments was identified in agriculture and transport lab with a potential to create about 129,000 jobs. In the manufacturing and processing sector, about $9.25 billion worth of investments were identified, with about 378,000 new jobs expected to be created.   AfCFTA One of the events that shaped the country’s manufacturing sector was Nigeria’s rejection of the African Continental Free-Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). Particularly, the two biggest economies, Nigeria and South Africa, at the end of the day opted out of AfCFTA. It was revealed that the refusal of Nigeria and South Africa not to sign may consequently diminish the impact of the proposed $3 trillion continental free-trade zone encompassing 1.2 billion people. The African Union (AU) had started talks on AfFCTA in 2015 to establish a 55-nation bloc that would be the biggest in the world by member states, in a bid to increase intra-regional trade, which sits at a measly 15 per cent of Africa’s total commerce. Speaking on Nigeria’s stance, the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, explained that Nigeria refused to sign because President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration did not want more local industries to close down. He also said that the private sector’s position on the AfCFTA made it impossible for the Federal Government to sign the trade treaty. Osinbajo stated that although AfCFTA was strategic to the continent’s trade, the private sector operators had told the administration not to sign it because it will pose economic loss to the country’s manufacturing sector.  Last line For industry operators, Nigeria’s manufacturing sector’s performance in the first half of the year was commendable because of the Federal Government’s friendly reform policies that brought succour to productivity.