…life not easy with us in camp, say victims  At least 51 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), who fled from herdsmen killings in Benue State, have died at the Abagena IDPs Camp, Makurdi.  The Camp Commandant, Mr. James Iorkyaa, who disclosed this in an interview at the camp yesterday, said out of the number, one died of accident while the remaining 50 died of various ailments. He, however, debunked reports that the deaths were as a result of poor condition of living at the camps.  Iorkyaa added that of most of the IDPs contracted the diseases which killed them from their villages before coming to take refuge in the camp, noting that some died of age-related problems.  The commandant added that the camp had recorded 69 births since it was established in January by the state government.   He said: “We have recorded 69 births since the camp was opened this year. Out of the 69 births, we have one set of triplets and two sets of twins.”  Iorkyaa said some of the challenges confronting the IDPs included shortage of food stuff to carter for the growing number of IDPs in the camp.  The commandant noted that sometimes they were forced to share a 50kg bag of rice to 40 families.  He added: “Another issue is the growing number of malaria cases particularly in children due to lack of mosquito nets. Though we had distributed the nets to the IDPs some have mismanaged and do not have them again.” Iorkyaa called on organisations and well-meaning individuals to come to the aid of the IDPs to alleviate their suffering. On his part, the Chairman of the Abagena IDPs Camp, Mr. Philip Usaatse, said all they needed now was for government to provide security for them to return to their homes.  About seven months ago, herdsmen invaded, attacked and killed residents of Guma and Logo local government areas of Benue State.  In the first attack on January 1, over 73 people were killed and were given mass burial by the state government.  But as if that attack was not enough, the assassins also made incursions into many other local government areas including Gwer West, Makurdi, Okpokwu, Ogbadibo, Kwande, Buruku and Gwer East among others, leaving scores of people dead and several others taking refuge in either the eight designated camps provided by government or with relations in different parts of the state.  One of the designated camps established by the Governor Samuel Ortom administration is the Abagena IDP Camp located on Makurdi-Lafia Road, which houses over 34,986 IDPs, including women, children and the aged.  Government as well as individuals, corporate bodies, and foreign donors have contributed immensely in the donation of assorted relief materials to cushion the effects of the attack on the displaced persons.  But when New Telegraph visited the Abagena IDP Camp to assess how they are faring, the IDPs admitted that life was no longer easy within the seven months that they had stayed in the camp with their families.  They cited insufficient food supply, absence of potable water and rampant cases of measles and malaria attacks on pregnant women and children, as well as the growing desire to return to their ancestral homes to continue with normal farming activities to adequately feed themselves as some of the major challenges facing them. It was observed that most of the children were malnourished. But camp officials said the office of the Senior Special Adviser to the governor on Food Security, led by Mrs. Dorcas Ukpe, had started serving children with cooked eggs to boost nutrition.  One significant feature of the Abagena camp was that it has now become a beehive of commercial activities as most of the IDPs have resorted to petty trading. They sell items such as roasted groundnuts, ice fish, recharge cards, cooked maize and confectioneries among others to keep life going. Also regrettably was the complete absence of power supply, which the IDPs said was capable of exposing them to attack by reptiles, though government has facilitated the beefing up of security within and outside the camp for the safety of the victims.  One of the displaced persons, Mr. Hyacinth Orjir, a father of six, said the major problem facing IDPs in the camp was inadequate food supply.  He said: “Our major problem in this camp is food. The quantity of food the SEMA (State Emergency Management Agency) officials served us to eat with our families is grossly inadequate for the little children to eat and feel at home. Since we have not been able to go back to our ancestral homes since our places are still under siege the problem of how to feed ourselves, the way it was before the attack, is now different considering the population in the camp.  “Our prayer to God and the government is for the crisis to end to enable us to go back home, and adequate security should be provided too for our safe return.” Orjir (57) said the herdsmen had burnt his house, destroyed all harvested farm crops and allowed the cows to feast on them.  He added that his efforts to go back with his family had not yielded fruits as the invaders were still occupying their villages, making it impossible for their return.  On her part, one of the oldest women in the camp, Mama Bridget Numkwagh, who hails from Agagbe in Gwer West Local Government Area, said apart from lack of food, she had no mattress to sleep on since she came into the camp and had been sleeping on the bare floor, using her wrappers. Numkwagh recalled that the herdsmen, who invaded her community at Agagbe, killed six people in her house and burnt many houses, including food items. She said: “The Fulani herdsmen came with sophisticated weapons with plenty cows and killed six people in my compound and burnt several houses, leaving us homeless. They also destroyed farm crops we harvested. For now, we are finding it difficult to go back home because the Fulani are still occupying our houses. As I speak with you, there is no way we can go back. Some of those who made attempts to go home have been killed while others are still missing.”  Another elderly woman, Mama Ikyaakohol Akumbur (73), who was attacked at Uikpiam in Guma Local Government Area of Benue State, said since the attack, she and her six children and other grandchildren had been staying in the camp. Akumbur said she had been sick since she came into the Abagena IDP camp but that she was getting better because of the treatment she was undergoing.   She said: “Uikpiam is always the target of attack each time the Fulani herdsmen attack our community and at each time, scores of people are killed. During the last attack too, they killed several people. In fact, some were murdered in their sleep.  “They killed many people in our home. I stayed in the bush hungry for days; God was protecting me. After days of painful search, my children found me and took me to this camp. I think the Anti-grazing Law is the best way to end the killing and the Federal Government should do something so that we can go back home.”  A nursing mother, Mrs. Comfort Nongo, who delivered five days beforeNew Telegraph’s visit to the camp, complained vehemently that inadequate food supply to the camp was one of her major problems. She, however, admitted that the baby “is hale and hearty”.  Nongo said she was displaced from Agwatashi in neighbouring Nassarawa State after the herdsmen invaded, attacked and killed people in the area.  The Camp Commandant, Iorkyaa, said the IDPs were not finding life easy in the camp.  Iorkyaa added that what was uppermost on their minds was to go back home to continue with normal farming work to feed their families.  The commandant said the camp had no electricity but commended a Non-Government Organisation (NGO), “Doctors Without Borders,” for its timely supply of water to alleviate water challenges confronting the IDPs in the camp. He said the camp had virtually no latrines, which, according to him, gives room for open defecation and exposure to diarrhoea.  “Malaria is the common disease in the camp because nets were provided for them, but many of them are not using it and the children are most victims of malaria,” he added.