TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE in this report, examines the possibility of the Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr. Oluranti Adebule, breaking the second term jinx for deputy governors in the state come 2019  In Nigeria, deputy governors are regarded as spare tyres because some of them are not actively involved and carried along by their principals in the day-to-day running of government. But, in Lagos State, a deputy governor is never idle because the number two citizen has the privilege of heading a ministry in addition to the role of a deputy governor. And unlike some states, where deputy governors are picked without wide consultation, that cannot be said of Lagos State, where ethnicity, religion and gender balancing are put always into consideration in the choice of the number two citizen of the state. This, perhaps, is the main reason why majority of past deputy governors are females and of different religious faith with whoever is the governor. But, since the beginning of the present Fourth Republic on May 29, 1999, no deputy governor in Lagos State has had the privilege of serving for two consecutive terms with their respective principals. They have always served a single term after which they get dropped. From 1999 till date, Lagos State has produced three governors – Asiwaju Bola Tinubu (1999 to 2007), Mr. Babatunde Fashola (2007 to 2015) and the incumbent, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode (2015 till date).While the two previous governors were allowed to run for two consecutive terms as allowed by the constitution, none of their deputies were given the opportunity to enjoy eight years in office. This explains why Lagos State has produced six deputy governors in the last 19 years. They comprised four females – Senator Kofoworola Bucknor- Akerele (1999 to 2003), Princes Sarah Sosan (2007 to 2011), Hon. Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire (2011 to 2015) and the incumbent, Dr. Oluranti Adebule (2015 till date). Otunba Femi Pedro and Prince Abiodun Ogunleye were deputy governors, respectively, between 2003 and 2007. Prior to the 1999 gubernatorial election, leaders of Alliance for Democracy (AD) and the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, nominated a Third Republic member of the Senate, Mrs. Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele as running mate to Tinubu, the AD governorship candidate because of the remarkable roles she played during the June 12, 1993 presidential annulment struggle and the fight for enthronement of democracy in Nigeria. The choice of Bucknor-Akerele, who also served in the Red Chamber with Tinubu during the aborted Third Republic, was first kicked against by leaders of the Justice Forum, a group within AD on the basis that they are unlikely to work together. But the need to compensate many groups within the party paved the way for Tinubu and Bucknor- Akerele to be sworn in as governor and deputy governor on May 29, 1999. But, the political war between the duo led to the resignation of Senator Bucknor-Akerele in 2013, after several efforts by the AD and Afenifere leaders to reconcile her and Tinubu failed. Few days after Bucknor-Akerele left the executive council, Tinubu announced a banker, Otunba Olufemi Pedro as his new deputy and both of them worked together till the end of the first term of his administration in 2003, and got re-elected during the April 2003 governorship poll. The duo worked closely till the tail end of the administration until the power tussle for Tinubu’s successor tore them apart. Pedro, against the wish of his principal insisted on running for the 2007 governorship despite the fact that Tinubu has given his blessing to then Chief of Staff, Fashola. Pedro later defected to the Labour Party to realise his aspiration. The move caused him his seat as he was impeached by the state House of Assembly. Prince Ogunleye, a former AD chairman, replaced him and served for about two weeks before Tinubu handed over to a new administration. On May 29, 2007, Princess Sosan was sworn-in as deputy governor alongside Fashola to steer the ship of Lagos State. A committed and dependable deputy, her loyalty caused her a second term ticket as she was not given the opportunity to run with Fashola during the 2011 governorship poll. Sosan was replaced by a former commissioner for Women Affairs, Orelope-Adefulire, who served for four years before bowing out like her predecessors in 2015. For Adebule, who is a former Secretary to Lagos State Government (SSG), she was sworn in on May 29, 2015 as deputy to Governor Ambode. Both have been together for almost three years without any record of rancour. But, despite the good working relationship between the deputy governor and her principal, the question on the mind of many people is: Will Adebule break the second term jinx? Till date, Adebule enjoys a good relationship with her boss and most party leaders in the state, including the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Tinubu, who showered encomium on her at the colloquium to mark his birthday in March. The question over Adebule’s fate ahead of the forthcoming 2019 general election is as a result of developments in the build-up to the governorship poll in the state. The silence of party leaders in endorsing the deputy governor as running mate to Ambode has prompted some analysts to foresee a situation where Adebule may not return with the governor in 2019. Those who hold this view premised their belief on antecedent. “Anything can happen in politics, so there is no 100 per cent assurance that Adebule will run with Ambode in 2019. At present, she has no problem with the governor and leaders of the party, but in politics one plus one may not be two. So, time will judge whether she will return or not,” an APC chieftain told New Telegraph. But, there is a political school that is of the view that because the deputy governor has no issues with Tinubu and key leaders of the APC in the state unlike some of her predecessor, who fell out with the party leaders while in office, she is likely to be re-nominated as Ambode’s running mate. Another party leader who spoke with New Telegraph on the issue, said nothing will stop Adebule from returning with Ambode in 2019. “The deputy governor has been loyal to her principal and she has done very well. So, there is no basis to drop her. Nobody changes a winning team in the middle of a game. So, I believe two of them are going to run together in 2019,” he said. The haze over Adebule fate, notwithstanding, a number of factors will determine whether she would be re-nominated by the party as deputy governorship candidate. At present, there is leadership tussle at the state, local government and ward levels of the party over the parallel congresses that took place in Lagos State during the APC’s recent congresses. Against this backdrop, it is believed that there is going to be negotiations among the party leaders, which may see some current public office holders sacrificed for peace and reconciliation in the party. The question is: Will Adebule be sacrificed like Sosan during the 2011 governorship poll? Already, eyes are on some party chieftains as likely successor if the deputy governor is dropped. Among those in the calculation to replace her Special Adviser, Art and Culture, Aramide Mudrat Giwanson; former Executive Secretary of Ijaiye/Ojokoro Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Fausat Hassan Olajoku; Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf and Special Adviser to Governor on Urban Development, Mrs. Yetunde Onabule. 