Eric Many, the former label of singer, Runtown, said a fresh case of contempt of court has been filed against the singer after he released a new song which the label considers a clear violation of an existing court order. A statement signed by the label’s general manager, Johnson Adumike, states: “We are in court with Runtown for his breach of our Recording Contract. We sued him because while applying to the Registrar of Trademarks in Abuja to register professional names licensed to us during the duration of our contract, Runtown also unilaterally terminated our Recording Contract with him. “While our Contract is supposed to fall due for expiration on 22nd June, 2018, Ericmany has an outstanding balance of about N266,694,755,08 to recoup on our investment and expenses on Runtown. He also failed to deliver an album which the Contract requires him to deliver to us during the Contract Period. Under the contract if there is outstanding money or Album by 22nd June, 2018, end of the Contract Period, the Contract enters into an Option Period of one year. Runtown has neither honoured the Contract Period nor the Option Period. Following our application, Abuja High Court made an Interim Order on 10th May, 2018, barring Runtown from any performance or recording of any song outside our Contract until the issues are sorted out by Court.” Going further, the statement by the label, which seems determined to pursue the case against its former act to a logical conclusion following Runtown’s release of a song titled “Unleash,” went on thus: “The judge also ordered that status quo be maintained until our Motion praying for this protection is decided. Yet on 27th June, 2018 Runtown released a new song outside our Contract. Determined to follow due process in our dispute with Runtown we have filed a Contempt of Court case against him. Following Court Order to serve Runtown by publication in the Punch, our Notice of Contempt of Court is published at page 22 of The Punch Newspaper today. If he still fails to respect Court Order by removing the song, we will follow up with the next steps to ensure Runtown is committed to prison.