 After being bitten by an ant on her eye, a 60-year-old woman has lost sight on one of her eyes. UCHENNA INYA, in Abakaliki, reports on the agonies of Mrs. Onyeka Evelyn   Mrs. Onyeka Evelyn, a native of Amakwo Umudoma, Ozubulu in Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State was in asleep at midnight when she heard her aged husband crying. She woke up to go to the husband’s room to know what was happening to him.  While going to see the husband, she hit her face on the wall. Days later, she started experiencing pains in one of her eyes. As the pains continued, an ant bite her on the eye and she started having eye problems, which resulted in her losing sight in the eye.  The eye problem took her to several hospitals in her Anambra State, Imo State, Enugu and finally Ebonyi where our correspondent saw her and where she passed through successful surgeries though she lost the eye. At Enugu State University of Technology Teaching Hospital (ESUTTH) Parklane, Onyeka was diagnosed with a two year history of protrusion of the right eye, orbital mass and a Computer Tomography report of frontal sinus according to a medical report from the hospital signed a Consultant Ophthalmologist(Medical Retinal Specialist), Dr. Mbakigwe C. dated November 30, 2017 and made available to our Correspondent. Her family had spent all they had since 2011 the eye problem started while battling to save the eye.  Onyeka, who narrated her ordeal to our correspondent on her hospital bed at the Federal Teaching Hospital Abakaliki 2 (FETHA2), said she has passed through excruciating pains since the problem started seven years ago.  Her words: “This thing started in 2011 late in the night when my husband was crying and I woke up to go and know what was happening to him when I hit my face on the wall. My husband is very old. That was why I decided to wake up when he was crying to know what happened to him that made him to be crying. Since then, my eyes started paining me and I started wearing eyeglasses. Two years later, I went to work when ant bit me on it and it pulled off my eye completely.  “Since then, my people started taking me to different hospitals for medical attention. We went to a hospital in Nnewi two times, Mgbirichi Hospital in Imo. From there, we went to Parkline hospital Enugu. After one month, we left Parkline to Federal Teaching Hospital here in Abakaliki. “Since November last year, we have been coming Federal Teaching Hospital steadily. On January 16, when I was to be operated on the eye, there was an outbreak of Lassa fever in the hospital and I went back to my village. In February, we came back to this hospital but they told us that a special Doctor in India has been contacted for the operation and that he would arrived the hospital in May.  “We resolved to wait till that May and I was eventually operated upon. It was on May 24 that the Special doctor operated on my eye. I have been passing through serious pains since this thing started. We have spent a lot over this sickness. I am now feeling better than before because it is no longer disturbing me like before.”  On her part, her daughter, Mrs. Ogochukwu Iwuchukwu, said people of the area and some of their family members discriminated against her mum over the eye problem.  She disclosed that she lived in Lagos with her husband and was always worried about her mum and that each time she called on the telephone to ascertain her condition, she would be told that she was okay which heightened her worry. She said her people had to summon courage to send her mum picture to her on whatsapp when her worry persisted and she saw that her mother was in terrible condition which forced her to come down her to see if she could be okay. Iwuchukwu also confirmed that her mother has gone to different hospitals because of her condition.  “My mum’s condition was very terrible since last year. I left my husband, children and everything down to Ozubulu from where I have been moving her to different hospitals.  My family members could not disclose my mum’s condition to me as I was in Lagos with my husband. I became so worried and I am her first daughter. I kept disturbing my siblings on the telephone to tell me how mama is doing. I told them severally to send me her pictures on whatapp to see her situation but they refused as they kept hiding it from me.  They kept telling me that all was well and that mama was fine “I later called my sister and pleaded with her to disclose to me our mother’s condition no matter the way it is because I know how I will pet my husband and he will do some- thing about it and also allow me to visit the east to see her.  She then sent our mother’s picture to me on whatsapp and her condition was terrible. People started consoling me, assuring me that my mother will not die. “A man, Chikezie Chukwjekwu, who was among those that consoled me has given us over N500,000. He is from our community.  He has tried a lot and he also gave us another amount of N100,000 when we came to this hospital for the surgical operation. We spent a lot and there was no money to continue her treatment. Drugs used in treating her are so expensive that we could no longer afford them. One of the drugs used in treating her costs N5,000 each and it was administered on her more than 25 times because the sickness was affecting the other eye.  “When I came down to east, I took my mum to an eye clinic called City of Refuge Eye clinic. Doctors examined her and gave us drugs both liquid and others and we spent heavily there. One of the doctors who examined her had directed us to take her to Abakaliki for better treatment but he did not tell me the particular hospital in Abakaliki and how it can be located. I asked him how can you tell us to go to Abakaliki without telling us the hospital to go to and the Doctor that will see us? “Somebody then directed us the Mgbirichi Imo State, where we spent over N300,000. We then came to Parkline hospital Enugu.  We visited Parkline twice a week. We came there for over two months and they gave us referral letter to come to Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki. Since November last year, we have been coming to this hospital from Ozubulu. We come here twice in a month, sometimes three times and it is not easy for us.  “We thank God that in this Abakaliki my uncle, Alhaji Malam Gab(papa Afam) has been assisting us in terms of accommodation and other things unlike Enugu where we lodged in hotels for months and the cheapest hotel in Enugu costs N7,000 per night apart from feeding money. “It was a woman in that Parkline Enugu hospital who met me one day and said to me “Nne, your mother cannot be healed here”. She met her HOD who referred us to this Abakaliki.  When we came here, one woman in the hospital, Mrs. Eze Anosike, told us that they will handle my mum’s problem perfectly but that the only problem is that one Doctor in India who taught her will come to the hospital for a programme and that she would like us to wait for her to come so that she can see my mum and examine her.  We waited and we were asked to do different test including CT scan that cost N50,000. “The Indian Doctor later came. We were very happy to hear he was around and he operated over 15 persons that had eye problem but my mum’s own was the hardest one. She entered theatre at 9:am and came out at 6:pm.  I became so worried. A Doctor came to me while she was in theatre and asked me the church we are worshipping and I told him Anglican and he said that my mum needed blood in the eyes. I called a friend doctor to know if it is possible for a human being to need blood in the eye and he said yes, that my mum case is critical and she must need blood.” 