General Overseer of the Omega Fire Ministries, Apostle Johnson Suleman has described as a poorly-executed hatchet job, the tweet on Sunday, in which Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on New Media, Lauretta Onochie told barefaced lies and made no pretenses to professionalism while castigating Suleiman on the outcome of the recently concluded Governorship election in Ekiti State. ”It is common knowledge that the quality of media management in the nation’s presidency has taken a nosedive since President Muhammadu Buhari took office, but the presidency hit a new low on Sunday when Onochie threw all pretences to the wind to rubbish a man of God with her unguarded vituperations and outright spewing of hate like a woman possessed and in need of urgent deliverance.” Omega Fire Ministries Spokesman, Mr. Phrank Shaibu said in a statement issued in Abuja on Tuesday.
Onochie had quoted Apostle Suleman to have said that God told him expressly that APC was finished in Nigeria and Nigerians would see how God will disgrace the party in the July, 14 Ekiti Governorship election. She referred to Suleman as a “Pastor who is not in talking terms with God but who continues to lie with God’s name”.
 But in a reaction, Shaibu said even if a primary school pupil had written that tweet, the lies told therein could not have been so recklessly blatant and so devoid of any shred of professionalism.
Apostle Suleman’s Spokesman said Onochie lifted the purported prophesy from the wall of a facebook user who has since pulled the post down after discovering that it was false and unverifiable.
“Isn’t it unbecoming that a presidential spokesperson is propagating an unverified report? Apostle  never made the purported statement being credited to him at any fora and  I challenge her to provide a contrary source to the one I just mentioned or produce any shred of  evidence to support her claim” Shaibu queried. Continuing, he said, ”But we hasten to say that we sympathise with Lauretta Onochie as we know that life itself has not been fair to her. Our appeal is that she should not vent her frustration on the church. The other day, it was the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) that she attacked, today, it is Omega Fire Ministries. Who knows which Church is next? “After careful examination, we think that Lauretta Onochie is a frustrated lady who is burdened by the challenges of life and is gradually going off her rocker. If not, why should anybody in his or her right frame of mind, not even a presidential aide, sit down in one corner of his or her room, pick up a fable on social media and then begin to broadcast it on social media?”
Shaibu said contrary to Onochie’s assertion, Apostle Suleman is a non partisan man of God, whose constituency is the church and has people of different political divides as members. “Our major point of departure from the Buhari led administration is the senseless massacre of harmless Christians across the country and Omega Fire Ministries will not keep quiet until the day Christians and Nigerians are at large consider their country as a safe haven.” the statement said.