…summons IGP over killing of 7 officers  The Senate, yesterday, mandated its Committees on Youth, Health and Police, to investigate the untimely death of a female member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Miss Angela Linda Igwetu, who was reportedly shot by a police officer in Abuja on Wednesday. The resolution was sequel to a motion brought to the floor of the Senate through orders 42 and 52 raised by Senator Attai Aidoko (Kogi East, PDP). The President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, before hitting the gavel in approval of the prayer said: “How could this have happened? How could the officer mistakenly or otherwise have shot in such a way that lead to this young lady’s death? “Every Nigerian life is important, especially young ones that are just about to start their own lives and careers. This is a loss that could have been avoided. We must continue to defend our people. “If they had treated her she may not have died. This is an avoidable death. But until we begin to hold people accountable to this kind of incident, they will not stop. “After all, what is the purpose of the law? Is it that they were not informed that the law exists? We are still living in the past, but now we have a law that must be obeyed.” The apex legislative observed one-minute silence in honour of the deceased corps member. In his presentation, Aidoko said: “Mr. President, I came under order 42 and 52 of the rules of the Senate because of the unfortunate incident that happened where a youth corper was killed by a trigger-happy policeman. “Mr. President, from the onset, with the assent of the compulsory treatment of gunshot victims’ bill in December 2017, victims of gunshot and car accidents can now receive immediate treatment in the hospitals without police report.” He, however, lamented that the deceased corps member was denied medical attention by doctors who insisted that a police report must be presented before her treatment. According to him, it was this denial that made the girl to bleed to death, regretting that if she had been treated, the corps member, who would have passed out from service yesterday, might have survived. He said: “Mr. President, this was a bill that was passed and the President assented to it. But despite this, Mr. President, two nights ago, Miss Linda Angela Ikweto, serving in Abuja, was allegedly shot by a trigger-happy police officer. “The deceased was to pass out from the NYSC programme today, July 5, after a compulsory oneyear service in Abuja. “She left for home about 2a.m. on Wednesday and was shot near Ceddi Plaza around Area 10, by a police officer who was well identified. She was rushed to a hospital, but they refused to treat her until they see a police report despite the fact that they saw the presence of some police officers. And while the deliberation was going on, Angela passed out.” Meanwhile, the Senate has directed its Committee on Police Affairs to summon the Inspector- General of Police, Mr. Ibrahim Idris, over the Monday killing of seven police officers at Galadimawa Junction in Abuja. The Senate took the decision following a motion moved through a point of order by Senator Mao Ohuabunwa (PDP, Abia North) on the proliferation of road blocks along South-Eastern roads by armed police and military officers. The Chairman of the Police Affairs Committee, Senator Abu Ibrahim, while responding to enquiry by Saraki on the gruesome murder of the security agents, said that the IGP had been invited to appear before the Committee on Tuesday next week. Saraki, who condemned the killing of the security officers by unknown gunmen, also mandated the Chairman of the Committee to report back to the Senate next week. Some gunmen had shot seven police officers in Abuja on Monday at the Galadimawa Junction, off the International Airport Road. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) police spokesperson, Anjuguri Manzah, confirmed in a statement that ‘men of the underworld’ were responsible for the attack. 