The last six months of the year have, to some extent, been cordial between employers of labour including the Federal Government and workers, until recent attempts by government to shift the goal post on minimum wage implementation. Sunday Ojeme reports  In the first six months of the current year, members of organised labour have been busy as usual towards protecting the rights of workers and fighting to enhance their welfare. The year opened with the leadership of Trade Union Congress (TUC) and the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) calling on governments at all levels to speed up the process of enhancing welfare of workers or face harsher confrontation in the New Year. While decrying the difficulties Nigerians passed through the previous year, they noted that it was not the best of times in the country, as the people were subjected to various dehumanising conditions. TUC President, Comrade Bobboi Kaigama, expressed displeasure over recurring fuel scarcity, saying that in the midst of the grueling fuel scarcity, many workers are still being owed salary. “Bailouts were given but unfortunately diverted by governors and the Federal Government seems not to be doing anything about it,” he said. “Those governors involved in such irresponsible act should be brought to book. There is no milk of kindness left in our leaders anymore. “They prefer state of the art monuments and house as well as five star hotels to human life and the education of our children (the supposed leaders of tomorrow). “Families die on our roads yet they tell us our roads are not as bad as some Nigerians claim. It is only in Nigeria people pay for services that they did not use. The power sector is a case in point. If things remain like this, the Congress may have no option than to hit the street.” He also expressed concern over the astronomical rate of factory closures in the country and the billions spent on medical tourism, among other issues, with some of them such as fuel scarcity, which though reared its head again in April, have been partially contained. More job promises Within the period, President Muhammadu Buhari also said his administration was trying very hard to provide jobs for the nation’s youths. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, quoted Buhari as pledging that his administration would increase its support for agriculture as a mechanism for jobs creation. “Following the uncertainty in the oil market and the huge unemployment situation in the country, we chose to put our fate in agriculture. I am glad that our young people are accepting agriculture instead of waiting for white-collar jobs. They are out there sweating it out in the sun, making a living. Agriculture is the way to go, even when we are realising this almost belatedly,” Buhari said. The successful exit from recession gave some investors the confidence to reopen their factories and subsequently recall some of their sacked workers while more hands were employed. Rebound The general improvement was made possible by a rebound in oil price and the reforms deployed in the whole system including foreign exchange control by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). According to the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), while reflecting on the slight economic improvement, the rebound in oil prices contributed to Nigeria’s exit from recession with full year Gross Domestic Product (GDP) data just released by the NBS showing that the Nigeria economy grew by an annualised 0.83 per cent in 2017, squarely in line with the IMF’s prior forecast. Ultimately, the tensed atmosphere that threatened job security in the immediate past was absent in the first quarter of the year. NLC’s anniversary Another major event that gained ground during the period under review was Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC)’s 40th anniversary where the body promised not to go back on its effort to ensure the government approves a living wage and provide decent working environment for Nigerian workers. At a thanksgiving service in Abuja to mark the anniversary, NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, said the need for decent working conditions for Nigerians could not be overemphasised. According to him, in the last 40 years, God has been faithful to the movement of the NLC and therefore it became necessary to seek divine intervention in efforts to address challenges confronting Nigerian workers. “We have gone through a lot of travails and we have recorded a lot of successes; so going forward is to thank God for where we are coming from,” he said. “And definitely, the grace of God will be sufficient to carry the organisation forward. “Many organisations were not able to live up to the period we have existed looking at their challenges; therefore, today’s event is to thank God and certainly to continue to rely on Him for way forward. “So, we need God’s grace, to do more for the Nigerian workers, the nation in advancing issues, decent work, unity and national development of the country. “Certainly we need the grace of God to take us to the next level.” May Day At the May Day rally in Abuja, Nigerian workers had another opportunity to engage their employers, especially those in the government circle. As usual, the occasion also provided the same leverage for federal and state government to remind the workers of how much they have been fair to them in respect of promises made over time. Minimum wage One of the dominant issues that the Federal Government was confronted with was the vexed issue of welfare with emphasis on minimum age. The Minister for Labour and Productivity, Dr, Chris Ngige, had given assurance to Nigerian workers that implementation of a new minimum wage in the country would be done, saying that the committee set up for that purpose by the Federal Government had already started work. The minister said the Minimum Wage Review Committee, with him as deputy chairman, would submit final report in the third quarter of the year to the National Assembly for due consideration. “This is a constitutional issue and the Constitution makes provision for the minimum wage to be reviewed every five years and we are on course,” he said. “The committee will decide what the minimum wage will be and it is a tripartite arrangement comprising the government, employers and employees. “So, the Nigerian workers should hope that we have their issues at heart.” Labour had nursed the fears that the Federal Government would likely renege not only on paying the recommended wage but also failing in implementing the process in the third quarter of the year as promised. Labour’s fear in this regard is gradually manifesting, as the Federal Government, which promised last February that the implementation of the new wage would commence by the third quarter of the year, came out last month to alter the narrative. Battle line However, anticipating the possibility of the government going back on its promise, labour hinged its battle on the theme of this year’s celebration: “Labour Movement in National Development; Dare to Struggle! Dare to Win,” vowing to resist any move to renegotiate the minimum wage currently put at N66,500 at any level in the country. Wabba recalled that the process of upward review of the National Minimum Wage to meet the current economic realities was ongoing in the country. He said, “We shall resist any move to renegotiate the minimum wage at any level. “We are battle ready against public and private organisations that would refuse to conform to the new minimum wage. As the benefits of a new minimum wage cannot be over emphasized, an increase in the minimum wage will pull many workers out of poverty. “A new minimum wage will put the country in positive light globally as it would ensure compliance with the International Labour Organisation standards.” Last line Events in the last months of the year point to the fact that although more Nigerians are likely to be employed in the months ahead, a major crisis is likely to erupt between organized labour and the Federal Government following the latter’s current stance on minimum wage implementation. The way to go in this respect is for the government to thread softly so as not to jeopardise the atmosphere of conviviality currently being experienced between it and workers. 