Former Vice President and 2019 presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, yesterday, urged party faithful who thronged the Ojumose, venue of official/symbolic flag presentation to the Ekiti State governorship candidate of the party, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, to ensure continuity and sustenance of Governor Ayodele Fayose administration’s policies and programmes. Atiku, who explained that every considerable infrastructural project since 1999 was executed by PDP government, assured the people of Ekiti State that PDP will sustain its development programmes in the state if they vote for Olusola. His words: “The people of Ekiti, I have known you since 1999, all the projects completed and which have taken Ekiti to higher level were done by PDP alone. PDP guarantees you good hospital, road, infrastructure, education and many other dividends of democracy. It is time for you to ensure that this administration continues because that is the key to development. “What we are doing is a rescue mission; we will bring back peace, security and prosperity of this country. Make sure you vote and stay there till results are announced.” Other dignitaries at the event, aside governor Fayose and Atiku, were members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC); members of Board of Trustees (BoT); serving and former governors; presidential aspirants including Sule Lamido, Attahiru Bafarawa, Ahmed Makarfi and Ibrahim Damkwambo. National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, who described Ekiti people as peace loving and politically savvy, said:”By the glory of God, Ekiti people are very peaceful and we can see the clear demonstration of love for Fayose and in-coming governor, Olusola, you won’t vote for herdsmen’s attacks and killings.” Prof Olusola, who spoke after receiving the party’s flag, said: “By the grace of God, we assure our leaders and Ekiti people that we will sustain the good legacies of Fayose. I assure you of adequate security, healthcare, excellent infrastructure, civil service, education enterprises, and exemplary leadership among others. Ours is a divine agenda. It is a divine mission with divine agenda and it cannot be conquered APC.” Makarfi said he was particularly delighted to realise PDP had been the cause of the sleepless nights of APC both in Ekiti and across Nigeria. “Three reasons to vote for PDP in Ekiti are: Our candidate is a professor, he is senior to APC’s who is a PhD holder, Olusola is pastor while Fayemi is merely a church goer, and we know APC is a student while ours is a teacher. We know APC will sack teachers, ours will empower our women and promote teachers.” Lamido on his part, said: “We are not here to campaign, but to celebrate victory because we known our candidate is a governor-elect. APC is scattered and President Muhammadu Buhari has left Fayemi’s office vacant, which means he knows Fayemi cannot win here.” Bafawara, who also spoke at the rally, said: “I congratulate you Ekiti people, you have a visionary leader in Fayose, who loves you, he is leaving but he has brought somebody who will continue the good works he has been doing. Continuity is very important. Keep on supporting Fayose and PDP. With what we have seen today, I know by the grace of God that we have won. What remains is for you to protect your votes on July 14.” 