Two weeks after its National Convention, a factional group has emerged from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Surprisingly, the faction is led by Alhaji Buba Galadima, a long-time associate of President Muhammadu Buhari. Galadima, at a press conference in Abuja yesterday, said the group has taken the name, Reformed-APC (R-APC). The group, according to him, includes all the progressive forces in APC, as well as leading members of the defunct New Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP), the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), the All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP) and the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). Leader of nPDP, Alhaji Kawu Baraje, who was present at the briefing, announced the collapse of the group into R-APC. He decried the state of affairs in the country and APC. Baraje promised that the group would work for the success of the R-APC. “The R-APC, as constituted, has officers in all the wards, 774 local governments, and all the 36 States of the Federation including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “The R-APC also has National Executive Committee (NEC), the National Working Committee (NWC) and other organs of the party that are properly constituted and functional,” Galadima said. Galadima was named National Chairman while Bala Muhammed Gwagwarwa from Kano State was named Deputy National Chairman (North) and Ambassador Sam Nkire from Abia State, Deputy National Chairman (South-East). The National Secretary is Dr. Fatai Atanda from Oyo State while Prince Kazeem Afegbua, the spokesperson for former Military President Ibrahim Babangida emerged as the National Publicity Secretary. Galadima also took a swipe at the APC-led Federal Government, regretting that the hopes and expectations of Nigerians in the last three years have been dashed and betrayed. “The APC has run a rudderless, inept and incompetent government that has failed to deliver good governance to the Nigerian people. “It has rather imposed dictatorship, impunity, abuse of power, complete abdication of constitutional and statutory responsibilities, infidelity to the rule of law and constitutionalism,” he added. According to him, APC is a monumental disaster, noting that the political party that was a vehicle for enthroning the government was rendered powerless by manipulations and complete lack of due process in its operations. “It has failed to ensure the security and welfare of our people and elevated nepotism to unacceptable height. “The APC has failed to deliver on its key promises to the nation. There is no evidence of any political will to reverse the decline of our party, while leaders who have created these circumstances continue to behave as if Nigerians owe our party votes as a matter of right,” Galadima stated. He added that the party’s recent congresses were intensely disputed as they were conducted in total disregard for due process and the APC constitution. Galadima noted that the congresses and the National Convention were challenged in many courts across the country, and expressed dismay that the judicial decisions on these cases might result in massive chaos, confusion and uncertainties. “The fate of a party in this state with a few months to the elections is best left to the imagination, but it is not a fate we believe our millions of members should be abandoned to,” he said. He observed that there were parallel congresses in 24 states. “These congresses in wards, Local Government Areas and states all over the federation produced different sets of delegates. “We, therefore, had an unfortunate situation where the party has been seriously factionalised and divided in not just 24 states, but the 36 states and Abuja FCT. “The so-called National Convention of the APC was even worse. The National Convention of the party was ridiculed with constitutional infirmities that were so glaring and obvious that no fair minded person can claim that a legitimate and lawful executive emerged from that process. “The Chairman of the organising Committee, Jigawa State Governor, Alhaji Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, declared 18 seats unopposed and uncontested, since only one valid candidate stood at the end of the grossly manipulated nomination exercise for each of the offices. He, therefore, proceeded to declare them duly elected in flagrant abuse and violence to the Constitution of the APC. “Indeed, Article 20 of the APC Constitution is very clear and explicit. It envisages a situation where if at the close of nomination, only one person is nominated, the convention must vote “Yes” or “No”, for each candidate before he is declared duly elected. “We all witnessed on live television and at the venue, Eagles Square Abuja, that the Convention Chairman, only put the “Yes” question to all the delegates, using words to the effect: Do you affirm? Do you agree? There was no opportunity whatsoever given to the delegates to say whether they are voting “No” for any candidate as the “No” question was never put to them. “It may well be that if the convention chairman put the “No” question, the voice vote for the “No”, may have been more. We will never know, since it was never done, contrary to the express provisions of the APC Constitution. “It is, therefore, unquestionably clear that the 18 officers of APC that were ‘elected’ through this process could not have been duly elected,” he observed. Galadima further observed that even before the congresses and convention, there has been widespread disenchantment over the party’s performance in government. He recalled that the nPDP, which, according to him, has made a major contribution to the emergence of the APC administration, has made strenuous efforts to invite attention to inequities, injustice and poor management in the party without any success. “The nPDP had shown good faith and commitment to the party, but it has been rewarded with indifference and even contempt. “It is obvious that the leadership of the APC has decided to shut out members of the APC, as well as other members who have raised genuine grievances and a desire to improve the responsiveness of the APC to the desire of members for a party founded on democratic principles,” the factional chairman stated. He promised that the R-APC would work with like-minded political parties and groups to offer Nigeria qualitative good governance in 2019. APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, said the party will soon address the issue. “We have report of a group of people who have purportedly described themselves as a faction of our party. We will be able to give our reaction as soon as we get the full details and have the opportunity to review it,” Abdullahi said. The nPDP is made up of Senate President Bukola Saraki; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara; governors including Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State; Abdufatah Ahmed of Kwara State; former governors, over 50 federal legislators and other key politicians.