The Lagos State University (LASU) recently wielded the big stick against three lecturers found guilty of sexual misconduct.
The lecturers, who were dismissed by the management of the institution, are Dr. Odubunmi Ayoola Sunkanmi, an Associate Professor in the Department of Economics; Dr. Ogunwande Isiaka Ajani, an Associate Professor in the Department of Chemistry and Dr. Gbeleyi Emmanuel Orilade, a Lecturer II in the Department of Anatomy at the College of Medicine, Ikeja.
Unfortunately, one of the sacked lecturers was arrested by the institution’s security operatives while allegedly sexually harassing a female student in his office, three days to his promotion interview for full professorship.
Sexual harassment in the citadel of learning is not new, but it is now more rampant than ever before. Never in history has it been this common.
In June, the Governing Council of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, dismissed Prof. Richard Akindele for allegedly demanding sex to upgrade the mark of a female postgraduate student in the Department of Management and Accounting, identified as Monica Osagie.
The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Eyitope Ogunbodede, announced the verdict of the council at a press conference held on the campus of the university.
On June 14, the OAU Senate said it had established that Akindele had an inappropriate relationship with Osagie and compromised his position as a teacher and an examiner by demanding to have sex with the student to upgrade her scores.
The council, headed by Dr. Yemi Ogunbiyi, approved the sacking of the professor.
Also, a lecturer in the Department of Geology, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Niger State, Omananyi Yunusa, was sacked by the management over his alleged involvement in the sexual harassment of a female student.
The Deputy Director, Information and Publications of the institution, Lydia Legbo, said that Yunusa’s dismissal followed the outcome of investigation into alleged sexual assault on the female student who took a course taught by the lecturer.
The dismissal was approved during the university Council’s 131st meeting presided over by the Vice Chancellor, Abdullahi Bala, after the investigative panel found Yunusa guilty of inappropriate relationship with the student.
While these three institutions – OAU, LASU and FUT Minna – have taken decisive actions against lecturers accused of inappropriate relationships with female students, some others have refused to take disciplinary actions against alleged predators in their employ.
One of such institutions is the University of Lagos (UNILAG).
A female student of the university, who did not identify herself, accused a professor in the Department of English of sexually harassing her and other students.
The accusation was backed up with nude pictures of the said lecturer.
According to the student, sexual harassment has become the pastime of the lecturers.
“…I’m tired of everything. The professor should be stopped before he ruins the lives of other innocent girls in that English Department. When he touches me I am always in tears, but it doesn’t stop him. He is destroying the mental state of girls in UNILAG.
“The English Department is like a cult. The lecturers have information amongst themselves. They talk about the girls they have slept with and the ones they plan to sleep with. It has been going on for years,” the student wrote.
But reacting to the allegation, the management of the institution promised to investigate the report.
“The management has a zero tolerance for allegations pertaining to sexual impropriety, and has a well-established policy against such practices.
“We wish to reassure all our stakeholders, students, parents, members of staff and the general public that management will not treat this matter with levity,” the UNILAG stated.
However, aside the assurances, nothing concrete seems to have been done about the allegation.
In a particular polytechnic, reports say lecturers even compel the female students to hire and pay for hotel rooms where the tutors would sleep with the victims in order to get good grades or to pass.
It is established that some female students, in some cases, solicit sex from male lecturers for mark. But as responsible adults, the lecturers ought to show restraint and demonstrable discipline in the face of temptation.
Since there is no institution that is immune to sexual harassment, we encourage institutions of learning to ensure code of conduct for lecturers to stem the tide.
There must be in place a feedback mechanism, where whistle-blowers’ identities would be protected and safeguard from being intimidated or harassed.
Victims should be encouraged to report and testify before any panel set up by the management. They must also be protected before, during and after the inquiry.
Authorities should upgrade their security apparatus, especially by mounting security cameras on the corridors of lecturers’ offices to monitor movement of female students in and out of such offices.
We commend OAU, LASU and FUT Minna for dispensing justice suitably. We hold that there are more lecherous lecturers roaming the nation’s institutions of higher learning for “forced sex.” These sex predators in the garb of lecturers should be fished out and punished. The institutions should “name-and-shame” these randy lecturers.
But beyond sacking, lecturers found guilty of sexual harassment should be handed over to the law enforcement agencies for prosecution.